=head1 Login as root and change root password

The root account in a fresh installation of Everything has no password.
Anyone who knows this will have free reign over the system. Before you
log on to play with the system, your first duty is to change the root
password. (For the truly paranoid, edit your httpd.conf to restrict
access to trusted machines while you set up the system.)

Fire up a web browser and point it at your site to see the friendly
Everything interface. The login nodelet lives in the upper right hand
corner, right below a large blue 'e' graphic. Type 'root' in the Login:
box and hit Login.

You will know this has worked if you see a different set of nodelets.
Root has access to many administrative functions. Ignore these for now.

Password changes occur at home nodes. Root has one, curiously named
'root'. Type 'root' in the search box and hit Go. (Choose the root node
of the 'user' type if you hit the multiple results page. You can also
follow the link on the word 'you' if you see "Maintained by you" on one
of these nodes.) You should see root's home node. The default text
reads:

	He's the god of gods -- instant access. Unlimited power. Great hair.

Bask in the glow of healthy respect, then look for the admin nodelet.
It should have replaced the login nodelet, in the upper right corner.
Follow the 'edit' link. In lieu of that, edit the URL in your web
browser and append the following:

 &displaytype=edit

Editing a user node is similar to editing a normal document with a few
extra fields. Real Name and Email address are self explanatory,
existing only for administrative use. (For example, you may forget your
password and wish to have it mailed.) For now, we only need the two
boxes labelled Change password. Choose a good password, and type it
carefully in both boxes. Hit submit. A warning message will appear
above the boxes if the passwords do not match.

If they do match, Everything will update the database with your new
password, prompting you to login again. You must do so, or you will be
logged out when you load a new page. Follow the login link to the
superdoc, or use the login nodelet if it appears), entering 'root' and
your new password. Don't save a cookie, as it will allow anyone with
access to your web browser to assume rootpowers, and will make it more
difficult to use a normal account for testing.

Congratulations, you've made your first executive change as root. There
will be many more to come.

=head1 Change text on the front page

The next task is to add some content to your site. We'll start by
editing the first page new users see: the default node.

Two rules govern all document text in Everything. First, all documents,
being nodes, have titles and unique id numbers. Second, document text
can contain basic HTML markup and links to other nodes.

=head2 Basic linking

Everything and the web in general depend on numerous, high-quality
links between nodes and pages. By making it easy to create links,
Everything promotes the idea of node interconnectedness. Link quality
comes with practice.

A basic link points to another node by title. To link to a node, simply
put its title between [square brackets]. Simple enough?

=head2 Link to the root user

To demonstrate linking, go to The Default Node. You must be root for
this exercise. If you're on the successful login screen, there's
probably a link there. Otherwise, type 'The Default Node' into the
search box and hit Go. (Shortcut: hit Go without typing anything.) Find
the admin nodelet, and hit the edit link, just as before.

This document has some different form fields. Title reflects the
document title, while the editor or owner of this node goes in the
Maintainer field. Don't change these, yet. The important element of
this page is the large text area marked "Edit the document text:".

By default, it contains some Zelazny-esque prose with minimal HTML
markup and a link to some guy named nate. (See the square brackets?)
Let's add a simple line. Click in the text box right after [nate]. Hit
Enter, then type:

	root was here.

That ought to show them, but don't stop yet. Put square brackets around
'root', just as those around 'nate'. Hit the charmingly misspelled
'stumbit' button to save changes.

To see the results, return to display mode. In the admin nodelet,
follow the display link. You'll switch between these views often.

When the page loads, note that it now includes our text, and 'root'
links to your home node. Follow it to verify, then return to the
Default Node. We'll fix the formatting briefly. First, return to edit
mode on the Default Node.

=head2 Link to a document that does not exist yet

Perhaps explaining the Zelazny reference, Everything allows users to
link to a non-existent node -- by name. Once named, it can be created.
Putting aside debates over Platonic ideals, let's link to a document as
yet uncreated.

Return to the document textarea of the Default Node, right after our
new graffiti. Add the following text:

	see [my first new node]

Submit the page, then use the admin nodelet to enter display mode. The
formatting won't win any awards, but the link should be available.

=head1 Create a new document

Click through the link to 'my first new node'. It won't be found unless
someone's followed this tutorial before. The Search Results page will
list nodes with similar titles. It will also allow you to create new
nodes with that title, giving you different nodetype possibilities.
Root has the ability to create nodes of any installed type. Choose
'document' for this one. (Different types of nodes have different
attributes and roles. A document is a simple node that normal users can
read, create, and edit.)

=head2 Click through on a document that does not exist yet

Following the document link actually creates and displays a blank node
called 'my first new node'. Congratulations, you've created a new node.
If you were to return to the Default Node and follow the link again,
you'd skip the 'Search Results' page, ending up at this blank document.
If you put 'my first new node' in the search box, you'd return here as
well. Wasn't that easy?

=head2 Editing a document

The next thing you need is some killer content. Switch to edit mode,
and you'll see the Title, Owner, and Edit boxes again.

We need some document text. Let's use a nice haiku, or at least, three
lines of five syllables, seven syllables, and five syllables. Here's
the text:

	default links point true
	the journey begins right here
	this, my first new node

Submit it and go to the display view. The content is there, but it
looks terrible. The linebreaks have disappeared -- everything is
crammed on one line. (There aren't any links, either.)

=head2 Basic HTML primer

To make your writeups look good, you'll have to know a bit of HTML.
Don't worry -- it's not much more difficult than making links.

The basic unit of HTML is called a tag. A tag is just a little note
that says, "Hey, do something right here!" Think of them as sticky
notes your web browser read, react to, and discard before you see it.
You see only the effect.

To fix the line break problem in our haiku, go back to the edit page.
Put a E<lt>br*gt; tag at the end of every line. Yes, that's less-than,
br, greater-than. (You've seen these already at 'the Default Node'.)
You don't need one at the end of the last line, but we'll put it there
to be consistent. Submit and display the node.

What an improvement! E<lt>brE<gt> must stand for line BReak or
something like that. Each E<lt>brE<gt> corresponds to one tap of the
Enter key. To use two linebreaks at once, just use two tags, like so:
E<lt>brE<gt>E<lt>brE<gt>.

Another useful tag is the E<lt>pE<gt> or paragraph tag. Similar to
E<lt>brE<gt> , it separates paragraphs with a blank line. (It does more
than that, but this is the basic idea.) If you were to remove the last
E<lt>brE<gt> tag from the haiku, replace it with a E<lt>pE<gt> tag,
adding the line:

	What are you waiting for?

You would see this in action. Try it!

Most HTML tags have an opening and closing form. They wrap around bits
of text (or other tags) like wrapping paper or parenthesis. For
example, the E<lt>strongE<gt> and E<lt>bE<gt> (for Bold) tags usually
display text with a heavier font stroke weight. (They make the text
bold.) Let's demonstrate by editing our new node once again. This time,
add:

	<strong>Make more nodes!</strong>

Displaying the page shows the nice effect. The tags affect anything
between them -- whether text or another tag. If you forget a closing
tag, the effect will continue through your text. Always close your tags
-- the closing tag starts with a forward slash -- always, always.

For reference, you can achieve an italics effect with E<lt>iE<gt> or
E<lt>emE<gt>. Underline is E<lt>uE<gt>. To display the word 'wheeeeee'
in bold and italics (note the order of the closing tags):

	<b><i>wheeeeeeE</i></b>

This merely scratches the surface of HTML, but will improve the look of
your nodes immensely. Keep experimenting to discover more. (Most of us
learned HTML with the 'View Source' or 'Page View' option in our web
browsers.

The last thing to fix is the lack of links in our document. In the
haiku, the phrase 'default links' refers to 'The Default Node'. That
will do. If we put square brackets around 'default', it will lead to
the Search Results page. We could make another node named default, but
that's not the same. A better approach is to link to 'The Default Node'
but show 'default links' as the text. It makes sense when you see it.

Editing the page again, change the first line to read:

	[The Default Node|default links] point true<br />

Submit and display. The text is the same, but 'default links' is now
clickable. Follow it to The Default Node. Impressive.

First, the square brackets mark it as a link. Next comes the title of
the destination node. The twist is the pipe character (found on the
backslash key, if you're still hunting). It tells the engine "What's on
the left of me is the destination, and what's on the right of me is
what I want you to call it right here." It creates a link that says
"default links" but goes to The Default Node. Remember, that's:

	[<destination node title>|<displayed name>]

Without a pipe and an alternate title, the link name will be the name
of the linked node. With a pipe and an alternate title, the link name
can be anything.
