=pod

When you've mastered editing nodes and making writeups, the next task
as root is to remodel your site. Perhaps you prefer O'Reilly Perl Blue,
Larry Wall Chartreuse, or Film Noir Everydevel to the standard reddish
tint. Besides changing the colors, you may wish to rearrange
information or add graphics.

By separating the presentation (HTML) from content (node data), the
Engine makes it possible to create multiple, unique looks for your
site. Users can pick and choose from the available options according to
their preferences. You'll have to edit a few nodes and come up with new
graphics on your own, but this is fairly easy.

=head1 Arranging the nodelets

Before we jump into a sea of changes, we need to prepare our workspace
-- root's nodelets. Node Statistics displays information about the
current node. It comes in handy when editing containers and display
pages. Let's put it right below the admin nodelet. To do that, we must
edit root's currently active node group ('system nodelets' by default).
Verify this at 'user settings' under the "Nodelet group" option.

Enter edit mode on 'system nodelets'. (This exercise requires
JavaScript.) You will see a box listing the nodelets in this group in
order, followed by four buttons. Highlight 'Node Statistics' and hit
the up button until it is second from the top. You must hit Save to
register your changes with the server. Do so, and the nodelets should
change to match the new order.

This is also the place to add nodelets to a nodeletgroup, assuming you
have the addables in the 'Node Bucket'. You can delete nodelets here as
well. Just remember, you must Save changes from the browser to the
server, if you want to keep them.

=head1 Changing the corner GIF

The happy little blue e in the top right corner stands for Everything.
Unless you're pawning yourself off as Everything3.com, this is a good
candidate for replacement. Modifying this takes slightly more work than
changing nodelet order, while demonstrating a powerful feature of the
Engine.

Go to the Default node. Look in the Node Statistics nodelet for the
Display page. It should be 'superdoc display page'. Follow the link
there, and remember this technique.

Ignore most of the information here, for now. The important field is
Parent container. The value here is something called 'general
container'. A container does just what the name implies. The Engine
uses the superdoc display page to display a superdoc. Before sending
that information to users, it puts it in a general container. Follow
that link.

The general container also has a parent container, 'main container'.
Follow the link one more time. The main container also has a parent,
but looking at its contents reveals the HTML for the top search bar and
our little blue friend, "images/e.gif".

If you feel especially lazy, replace e.gif in the images directory with
your own image. The right way to change the image is by editing the
main container HTML. Enter edit mode.

I've already created an image and placed it into the images directory
as 'fw.gif'. To use it instead if e.gif, I simply changed the src
attribute of the img tag. Do whatever is appropriate for your purposes,
hit submit, and visit any other node to see the change. (It may display
after you hit submit, but the old container text may still be in the
cache.)

If the new image does not display, check your spelling and file
permissions. Examine the web server's error log for telltale warnings.

=head1 Changing the themesettings

After changing the corner image, let's modify the color scheme. Site
colors live in theme nodes. User colors come from settings in the
'default theme' node in the absence of more specific values. (The
'default theme' is the default due to its presence in 'system
settings', not because it has the word default in its title.)

Rather than modifying the default node, let's take a different
approach. Head to the 'default theme' and hit the 'clone' link. This
will prompt you for a new node name with a JavaScript window. Call it
'new theme'.

Congratulations, you've just cloned your first node. Follow the link to
'new theme'. Like any good clone, this is a duplicate of the original.
Only the title, id, and create time have changed. We want to edit the
settings, so enter edit mode.

The settings edit page bears some explanation. Mark settings for
removal with the leftmost checkbox -- select as many as you like. (Just
beware that removing things installed with ebase or ecore may break
parts of your site.) The setting and value columns correspond to the
keys and values of a Perl hash (or a word and definition in a
dictionary). Ignore the Auto Set Value column for now. You can add a
setting with the blank boxes at the bottom of the list. The submit
button will remove any checked settings, add a new setting, and change
any old settings with one press. Finally, there may be a group editing
box, if it applies to your node.

We can customize quite a bit without adding new settings. Begin by
changing the author field to your name. If you have HTML experience,
you'll feel right at home with most of these settings.

The body color settings control the color of the background, links, and
text. Nodelet fields apply only to nodelets, of course. Attr (short for
'attribute') fields provide finer-grained control over E<lt>fontE<gt>
and E<gt>tableE<lt> tags -- you can specify a font size or a table
width with normal HTML attributes.

Container settings determine the node containing HTML to wrap around
the various nodes. For example, the main container provides our image
and the top search box. You can get very creative with this, but leave
it as is for now.

Two types of settings remain. NodeletTitleBackground points to a
background image to tile in nodelet title bars. To use an image,
specify its relative path, without quotes. Otherwise, leave it set to
two double quotes, or the option will disappear. Finally, version lets
you track the number of times this theme has changed. Submit your
changes when you're satisfied. It's time to test them, so note the id
of this node in the admin nodelet and visit 'system settings'.

=head1 Changing the default theme

Now that you're comfortable editing settings, change the default theme
node id to point to 'new theme'. Use the node_id you noted in the last
section. You can also use the Auto Set Value column to specify a node
by title and type. Be sure to remove the node_id in the value column if
you do -- the setting edit page prefers that value.

To make more changes, return to 'new theme'. If your root user uses the
default theme (check 'user settings'), you'll see the changes as the
page reloads. For best results, log out and admire your site through
the eyes of a guest user.

=head1 A word about themesettings

Themesettings strongly resemble themes, inheriting and overriding
values of a parent theme. One might create a new themesetting with only
one setting -- a background color of 'ffff00', or yellow. Declaring it
as a child of the default theme and selecting it in user settings would
produce pages with a yellow background and all other settings as
normal.

Creating a themesetting instead of a theme allows rapid, incremental
changes, and user customization within certain parameters. For example,
a Big themesetting could increase contrast and use a larger nodelet
text size for visually impaired readers.

Themesetting variables are the same as those of themes, and the
creation and editing processes are the same. Beware that setting
"Replacement settings for" to 'none' caused a fatal error in my
testing. Themesettings need parents, unless they provide all necessary
theme variables.

=head1 Turning off features

While modifying your site, you may discover certain features to be
inappropriate for your purposes. You might not want guest users
creating new accounts, or using the search box. You may wish to disable
or remove a nodelet. Everything provides easy and quick ways to
accomplish these, while allowing more complex adjustments.

=head2 Limiting the Guest User's options

Some Everything sites need access restrictions, like Hemos.net and
Oostendorp.net. Only a few people need the power to login and to change
nodes.

Since everyone begins as a guest user, the quickest chokepoint is to
limit the guest user's actions. Start at the 'system settings' node.
Here you will find "GUshownodelets", which allows or prevents guest
users from seeing nodelets, and "GUshowsearchform", which governs the
presence of the search box. Set both to zero. (Deleting them also
works, but reduces your options in the future.)

Without accounts, no one will be able to gain greater permissions. The
next barrier is at the 'Create a New User' node. Go there, and follow
the permissions link from the Admin Nodelet. Disable read permission
for the guest user.

Saavy users can still fake GET and POST requests, but cannot log in
without accounts. To disable logins altogether, you might disable guest
read permission on the login superdoc. This will prevent you (as root)
from logging in without having a persistent cookie set, editing the
database, or building your own query string of the form:

	?op=login&user=root&passwd=OOPS

Nothing prevents any user with a valid account from doing the same.

=head2 Removing nodelets

With guest users unable to create accounts, the 'Login nodelet' serves
no purpose. If you've not locked down your server, you may wish to trim
the guest user nodelet list. Showing 'Other Users' and 'Personal
Nodelet' makes little sense for guests.

By default, the guest user uses the 'default nodelets' nodeletgroup.
Clone it to 'GU default nodelets' and go there. Edit the group,
removing and rearranging the members as you prefer. Save your changes,
and remember the node_id of this nodegroup.

Go to 'system settings' and change the default_nodeletgroup value to
point to 'GU default nodelets'. Logged-in users will also see these
nodelets, unfortunately. You could have them visit 'user settings' to
change their preferred Nodelet group, or modify the 'create a new user'
superdoc to change this field in a new user node.

=head2 Removing the search box, redux

The other way to remove the search box has no subtlety, but
demonstrates a powerful engine feature. Go to the 'main container' and
enter edit mode. This node contains mostly HTML, with three htmlsnippet
references.

The first call ([{searchform:noendform}]) displays the familiar search
box and Go button, topping every page. To disable it temporarily, wrap
it in an HTML comment and press Submit:

	<!-- [{searchform:noendform}] -->

The resulting page will display the changes. Nearly every page in
Everything goes through this container. (Hopefully you still have the
admin nodelet available so you can undo your changes. If not, try the
following URL:

	http://hostname?node=main%20container&displaytype=edit

Adjust as necessary.

=head2 Removing all nodelets, redux

Getting rid of all nodelets is just as easy. Comment out [{nodelet
meta-container}] and submit. A small change in the right container can
change the look of your site tremendously. What power.
