Everything Base

This is the base to the Everything system.  This sets up the install
directory and creates the basic database needed to "boot-strap" the
system.  Once the base is installed, you will need to install the
ecore nodeball.


Nodeballs

What is a nodeball?  A nodeball is a "package" of nodes for your
Everything system.  Nodeballs are somewhat similar to RPMs or DEB
packages.  They allow you install specific functionality to your
Everything system.


Installation

See the various "readme" files.  You will need to make sure you have
the appropriate perl modules installed, along with making sure that
you have apache, mod_perl and mysql set up appropriately.

> perl Makefile.PL
> make
> make install

Running 'perl Makefile.PL' will ask you some questions about how you
want to install the system.  By default, it will install it on the
machine.  You will need to run 'make install' as root.

If you are only a mortal user on the system (no root access), you
can specify alternate directories to install where you have write
permissions.  Since you cannot copy the perl modules (Everything.pm
and the Everything directory) to the proper perl system directories,
you will need to copy them somewhere else and specify that directory
in the index.pl file by adding the line:

use lib "path_to_directory_that_contains_Everything";

before "use Everything::HTML".  Otherwise, the Everything modules
will not be found.

After you have Everything installed, you may want to add the bin
directory in the Everything install to your path so you have access
to the scripts needed to maintain your Everything system.


Uninstall

> make realclean (as root)

Note that executing 'make realclean' will remove everything.  This
includes the perl modules and the associated database.  After this
is executed the Everything system will not exist.  Don't execute it
unless you really mean it.  I'm serious.


Other Information

For more information see http://www.everydevel.com
